# neural-network-challenge-1

For this challenge, we are working at a student loan refinancing company, and our goal is to use data and build a model which will allow us to determine if a borrower will repay their loan. In turn, we can determine the best interest rate for our clients. The model will use past students' data, including details such as payment history, type of degree, gpa, major, time it took to repay their loan, and other factors. We take this data and separate the "credit ranking" column in our data, becoming our y or dependent variable. All of the other columns become the features we're using to determine the students' behavior, and these features will be our independent X variable. We take our X and y and split into training and testing data sets. Scaling the data is also necessary. We use our features or X_train data to determine our input nodes which help create our deep neural network. The number of layers are determined as well. Once we have all of this, we can create our Sequential model using TensorFlow's Keras. We begin building our model by adding two hidden layers and an output layer. We check the summary of our neural network model to ensure we're on the right track. We then need to compile and fit our model using the `binary_crossentropy` loss function, `adam` optimizer, and `accuracy` evaluation metric. We fit the model with the training data and 50 epochs, and the result is a model with 0.745 accuracy. We save our model to a keras file so we can using that to predict loan repayment success and lastly print out a classification report with the y testing data and previous predictions. We discuss further the type of data needed to build this recommendation system and how to approach. Deciding on a context-based approach allows us to provide a tailor-made approach to repayment for the students, which goes into further detail in the ipynb file. There are various factors to consider when evaluating a student's ability to repay their loans, and in this context-based approach, we take the economic climate into account, as well as expect diligent reporting from the students in order to keep the repayment plan up to date and feasible for the students. 

# Sources

Xpert Learning Assistant - Various questions such as information on the Sequential model and more info on the different approaches - content, collaborative, and context based filtering </br>
Module-18-Neural-Networks-Deep-Learning-1/Class-1/Activities/02-Ins_Work_Through_NN/Unsolved/work_through_nn.ipynb - helpful for data preprocessing, buidling the Keras Sequential model and how to add input layers</br>
Module-18-Neural-Networks-Deep-Learning-1/Class-2/Activities/06-Ins_Getting_Real/Unsolved/getting_real.ipynb - For model summary, as well as setting the model's file path, and loading the model to a new object </br>
Module-18 - Using various examples to solidify understanding of model building and ensure all parameters are including in things such as adding layers correctly to the model </br>
